General formatting requirements
Date: 
Any column with column name that contains ‘date’ will be validated against 
this standard and the data will only be uploaded if it conforms to this standard. 
Dates will be parsed as strings and then converted to a datetime object if the format of the string is correct.
If this results in any issues or concerns, feel free to contact magnus.johannsen@sund.ku.dk
and we can probably figure something out.

Every row that only has empty cells will be deleted.

The column names and positions should be exactly the same as found in the example sheet that can be downloaded 
from the web page. If it is not, the data will be rejected. If you want the example sheet to be updated (add/remove/rename/relocate columns etc.) 
contact magnus.johannsen@sund.ku.dk.

Leave cells empty if there is no data to put there. Do not write "N/A" or "-" or anything. Just leave it empty.

You will most likely run into errors when uploading. This is to ensure that the uploads are done correctly. 
Please contact database admin at magnus.johannsen@sund.ku.dk if you run into any errors that you don't understand.

Intervals: 123 - 124

The following is the safest and best approach for the database, as this is its standard:
Decimal point = "."
Thousand seperator = ","

Makes it easier to work with ranges which has the form "[8, 10)" where comma wont work. 

Primary ids must be not null. Remove rows that do not have a primary id. 

If a column contains multiple values, seperate them with semicolon. For example if a sample was taken by multiple people,
the 'Sampled By' column input should be "Alice; Bob".


See example sheets. If want to change them, feel free to send me a revised version and I will try to implement it.

Column names (case sensitive) and columns positions should be exactly as in the example sheet.

Delete rows that should not be in the database, before uploading. 

The database will in the future only accept the following employee identifiers:
For internal: KU IDs
External: email.

This means initials will not be accepted in the future. Make sure to change any protocols or sheet templates to accommodate this, or
you will have a lot of tedious clean up to do in the future!

Archive sampling
The database is set up to accept archive sampling meta data spreadsheets containing the following columns: 
Date (YYYY-MM-DD)

Regarding columns "Lab assistant (KU ID)" and "Submitter (KU ID)" in the example sheet: 
Even though it says KU ID, you can still upload files with "Lab assistant (initials)"
for now, but in the future the database will only accept KU IDs, so make sure to change your templates
and protocols.

IMPORTANT: A row will only be uploaded if it contains an archive tube barcode (example: LV3005888045).


Robot sampling

Regarding columns "Lab assistant (KU ID)" and "Submitter (KU ID)" in the example sheet: 
Even though it says KU ID, you can still upload files with "Lab assistant (initials)"
for now, but in the future the database will only accept KU IDs, so make sure to change your templates
and protocols.


Field sampling: 

The following is the safest and best approach for the database, as this is its standard:
Thousand seperator = ","
Decimal point = "."

Makes it easier to work with ranges which has the form "[8, 10)" where comma wont work. 



Your parsed data is shown after you press the "Upload" button.
After you press upload, your data will be automatically parsed, to match the standard format of the database.
The database uses YYYY-MM-DD for dates and "." for decimal point. 
If you use other formats, this means that your data will be automatically transformed to match the above format.
This parsing is not tested rigidly, so make sure you double check for any errors before you confirm. 
If your data was parsed correctly you can press confirm, and the parsed data will be uploaded to the database.
If there were no errors while uploading, a page will show the data as it is represented in the database.
Here you can doublecheck that everything looks correct.
If you need to edit your data after you uploaded, ask admin for help with this.